---
title: "Journal"
last_modified_at: 2025-03-09T16:20:02-05:00
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - Post Formats
  - readability
  - standard
---

## Semester 1 

## Week 1 
- Today, I found a tutorial for the arcade machine, which was created by maxvfisher. The tutorial will be linked below.

- I began to create my Bill of Materials. I am using a Google spreadsheet that will track vendor, price, and the name of the part. I also decided to use a 30mm Push Button 3/16".


 - I continued creating my Bill of Materials. Today I  found the joystick I plan to use, which is the EG STARTS 1x Arcade Joystick Classic Competition 5Pin 4-8 Ways Joystick.


- I got a Raspberry Pi 4B, which will have retropi and will receive inputs from the joystick and the buttons.


 - Today I downloaded Retropi on the Raspberry Pi and continued my Bill of Materials. I realized that I needed hinges for the back of the arcade machine to open and close it. I found SYINE Heavy-Duty Butt Hinge Zinc Alloy, 1.5'' x 1.5''.


- I opened Retropi on the Raspberry Pi and began to input commands for a keyboard. I also began to familiarize myself with retropi. I have never used RetroPi before, so I found a tutorial on YouTube made by TechHut.


 - I continued to make progress on retropi. In Retropi, I changed the settings to allow for overscan. I also ran into the issue of Retropi when you configure the controls on a keyboard, unless I reboot it. I am going to work on the physical cabinet design in Fusion 360 until I have the buttons and the joystick.

## Week 2 
- Today, I worked on creating the side and back panel for the machine in Fusion 360.

- Today, I continued working on creating the panels. I added the light panel and the panel that will house the buttons and the joystick. I then began to create the stickers for the machine. I made one for the word Move and found the correct font, which was Puffin Arcade on Adobe Illustrator.

- Today, I continued making the panels. I made a door for the back panel so the electronics could be accessed easily. I also began to plan out how I am going to make the

- Today, I created a slot for RGB lights in the side Panels. I used 4.85mm x 720mm. A .05mm gap was created between the RGB measurement and the gap to ensure that when the CNC machine cuts the wood, the lights will easily fall into place.

## Week 3 
During this week, I switched my focus back to the Raspberry Pi. For the majority of the week, I was doing research on how to get the games I wanted onto the RetroPi software. I learned that I needed to download ROMs, which stand for Read Only Memory, which in this case holds a game and its code. I had never heard of ROMs, so I did a lot of research on where to obtain a free version. I found a website called MAME, which offers free ROMs and is considered a safe platform for downloading them. After I found this website, I found a tutorial on how to download them and get them onto the Raspberry Pi. I needed a thumb drive to transfer the ROMs over. I didn't get a thumb drive until the next week. I then went to download the ROMs at school, but the wifi blocked it, so I needed to do it at home. I switched my attention to the fusion files. I continued to work on the button panel, changing the number of buttons from the original. The original had 16 buttons, and I decreased it to 8, 4 for one side and 4 for the other. That was all I managed for this week.

## Week 4 ##
During this week I had less time to work on our personal project because I was working on the topography map. I did realzie that my dimensions for the cabinet were off though. I forgot that I got an old tv earlier in the year and planned to use that instead of a computer monitor like the original design. I needed to switch all of the dimensions. I first started with the Button Panel soand extended it by 200mm on horizontally and vertically. I also changed the dimensions of the main panel that held the screen. I realized that the sides were too skinny to hold the tv because it weighed more than a monitor. This is where I ended for the week.  


## Semester 2

1/8/26
Today I spent time doing research on how to upload the ROMS I found. I planned to have Galaga, Mrs. Pacman, and Track and Field. I watched videos and came to the conlusion that the best way to transfer them was through a thumbdrive. I had an old one from a cruise that was clean so I went home that later that night and began to upload them

1/9/26
During my research I didn't find that I needed to configure my thumbdrive in order for the ROMS to transfer properly. I spent most of class trying to figure out how to format it. I found that I needed to plug it into the Raspberry Pi and it would format it. After which I needed to plug it into my computer and transfer the ROMS over. This worked well and I could see the games on within the arcade tab in Emulation Station. 


1/12/26
Today I realized that my games kept crashing when I would open them. I would open the game and it would say press a button to configure after a few seconds it would send me back to the game selection screen. I did a little research because I was confused and I found that a lot of potential crashes are caused due to using the wrong emulator. I went into the settings and set my emulator as the MAME 2003 version. MAME 2003 is the best emulator to handle older games such as GALAGA and PACman. 



1/13/26
Today my teacher gave me a A SANWA jLF-tP-8yt Joystick that I planned to use. I spent most of today doing research on how to code this type of joystick and what pin goes to what prong of the joystick. I learned that the different pins refered to a different direction as well as a ground pin. When programming it I would need to make sure each direction had a different GPIO pin and a different key attatched to it.

1/15/26

I continued to make sure the joystick worked and since I didn't have the buttons yet I turned to working on the design files. I began by tracing the outer panels that were created in the tutorial I found. I then made sure the dimensions fit the design I had. The panels were 4 feet tall and 


1/20/26

Today I finally received the retro arcade buttons that I had ordered. I decided to work on coding the buttons to work today. I first began by cutting 22-gauge wire and stripping it to use on the button ends. I cut a piece of the red wire and used that to measure the black wire to ensure they were the same size. As soon as I began to solder the wire onto the prong of the button, I realized that since the prongs were metal and the wire was metal, it was going to be difficult to solder them together. Class had ended, so I no longer had time to work on it today

1/21/26

When I came back to the buttons, I stubbornly began to solder them onto the prongs again. I did realize this time that if I melted solder onto the tip of the soldering iron, then I could place that solder on the metal, and they would stick together. I also realized that if I curled the wire around the prong, it would be easier to keep the wire in place. I spent class today finding that solution and soldering one of the buttons.

1/22/26

Since I had so much trouble soldering one of the buttons, I decided to use one of them for proof of concept, and then got back and soldered them all. The next step was to place the case around the button and begin to program one of them, as well as the joystick. I had to install a GPIO Controller Driver, which allows each direction to be registered to a GPIO pin. I used the mk_arcade_joystick_rpi. I also had to make sure that it would install when booting up retropie so it would register. I had to add a note to the modules document in order to have the driver recognized and thus open when booting up the Raspberry Pi.
I finally was able to add each GPIO pin for each direction. I had to use 4 different pins for the 4 different directions. The pins I used are in the photo below.

1/23/26

Today I finally tested the button, and it worked. I decided to solder the rest of them using the strategy that I had used earlier. I spent all of class soldering the buttons.

1/26/26

1/27/26


1/29/26

Today I spent the entire time wiring all the buttons, labeling them with what letter they were: A, B, X, or Y. I also made sure to go back to the module file and type in the correct button GPIO pins.

2/2/26

Today, within RetroPie, I began to configure each of the buttons to the correct input. This is different from the GPIO pins because that tells the Raspberry Pi that a specific pin is an input, but the configuration in the RetroPie tells the computer which key to assign to the input when playing a game. I also went into each game and made sure the buttons were correct and that the games worked. I only made it through configuring GALAGA in class.

2/3/26

Today I continued configuring each of the games and tested to ensure they worked correctly for all of class.
