---
title: "Final Capstone Project: Building a Retro Style Arcade Machine"
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - Post Formats
  - readability
  - standard
---

**Research** 

My capstone project for this year is a retro-style arcade machine. The project will be made out of wood and will be held together by screws. This machine uses a Raspberry Pi 4B in order to play older games such as Galaga, Track and Field, and Pac-Man. I chose this project because my father loved playing older-style video games as a kid, and I wanted to give him that experience again. The successful project would be able to run older games and take inputs from the joysticks and buttons correctly. 

I am using a tutorial made by Max Fisher, but I plan to make improvements along the way and differ from the original design in the size and shape of some of the major pieces. I received this tutorial on GitHub, and it will be linked in the links page of this website 


This project will differ from the tutorial because I will be adding LED lights to the outside in addition to extending the screen panel, downloading different ROMs, and connecting the Raspberry Pi to the jotsitcks. In the tutorial, Max Fisher uses a premade kit to connect all the buttons, but I plan to create it myself. The panel size will be larger because I am using a larger monitor than he is, so adjustments need to be made there. Max Fisher only downloaded a few ROMs, but I plan to download more and different ROMs that better fit my dad’s choice of video games.



**Instructions** 


Final price of the build should be: $61.67 before tax.

I will use an Aspire Shop Bot machine in order to mill out all of the panels. I am planning to use a cricket sticker maker to add some cosmetics to the build. I will use a sander for the edges of each of the edges of the wood. I also plan to use an automatic drill to keep the pieces together and to attach the brackets to the frame of the build to hold the monitor in place. 

I am using Fusion360 to design the panels, and I am also going to use Adobe Illustrator to create the sticker designs. 

