---
title: "CNC"
categories: 
    - blog
tags: 
    - markdown
    - github
    - pages

---



Day 1: I was given a slideshow that demonstrated how to create the tool path. Then I created a workflow from the slideshow. 

Day 2: I finished the board today and then went to the lab and was shown how to upload the G-code and begin the milling process. The board took about 5 hours to complete so I grabbed the board the following day

Day 3: The board didn't mill all the way through so I had to change the height to 1.7mm. I then restarted the process but as I clicked the button to begin the job I saw there was a screw in the rig was not tightened so I clicked the "pause current G-code task" button on the bottom left of software. The machine then turned itself off and wouldn't turn back on. 


Troubles: My first board didn't mill all the way through, so I changed the height dimension to 1.7mm. Because I had to change the dimensions, I had to restart the design process. The next time I went to the mill, I saw that one of the screws on the rig was unscrewed when it wasn't supposed to be. I then paused the machine by clicking the pause current G-code task. The machine then turned itself off and would not turn back on. Therefore, I didn't have time to finish milling the board.

<a href="/assets/files/Resistance1-Edge_Cuts%20%284%29.gbr" download>Download Gerber file (Edge_Cuts)</a>
<a href="/assets/files/Resistance1-F_Cu%20%284%29.gbr" download>Download Gerber file (F_Cu)</a>
<a href="/assets/files/Resistance1-PTH%20%282%29.drl" download>Download Drill file (PTH)</a>
<a href="/assets/files/Colaco%20Mresistor%20Gcode%20%281%29.nc" download>Download Gcode file (Gcode)</a>

